Include api access OpenWebUI (#124)
UtrechtUniversity/vre-docs: docs/workspaces/utility/ollama-open-webui.qmd

Do you want to use Ollama models from within Python code? Check out the [Ollama from Python manual](../../manuals/ollama.qmd) for instructions on setting up Ollama in Python workbench and UU VRE workspaces.
:::

## Using API Keys

If you want to interact with your Ollama models programmatically from scripts or applications instead of only using the web interface, you can enable API access.

You can use the [Open WebUI API keys](https://docs.openwebui.com/features/authentication-access/api-keys) to:

- Automate model interactions from scripts
- Integrate Ollama into data processing pipelines
- Batch process multiple documents
- Build custom applications using your models

### Enabling API Access

> Open WebUI API is disabled by default, however you can enable it during the last step of creating your workspace. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open WebUI API is disabled by default. This is to be as secure as possible by default, as using the API means that SRAM authentication must be disabled for the API route.

However, you can enable the API during the last step of creating your workspace.
```

Under Workspace Parameters, you can enable API access by entering **`yes`** in the **"Expose OpenWebUI API (yes/no)"** parameter

::: {.callout-tip}
Only enable the API if you need programmatic access. Exposing Open WebUI API bypasses SRAM authentication and uses API keys for security instead.
:::

### Setting Up and Using API Keys

To see how to create and set up an API Key, follow this manual: [Open WebUI API Keys Manual](https://docs.openwebui.com/features/authentication-access/api-keys#getting-started)

**API Endpoint:** The API is accessible at `https://your-workspace-url/ext/api` (Note: uses `/ext/api`, not `/api`)

> Additional documentation on Open WebUI API access can be found here: [Open WebUI API Documentation](https://github.com/UtrechtUniversity/src-component-openwebui?tab=readme-ov-file#api)

Reviewer: Maybe could add note or callout here, indicating that you can also add HTTP basic authentication (linking to the component docs for that is fine). This note or callout could be marked as for advanced users.
